APICalypse cheatsheet
APICalypse is a new language used for this api which greatly simplifies how you can query your requests compared to the url parameters used in API V2.

Fields
Fields are used to select which fields you want back from your request to the api.

To select fields you need the APICalypse command fields or its shorthand f.

Popular wildcard is to add * instead of a field, this will give you all of the fields.

fields name,release_dates,genres.name,rating;
f name,release_dates,genres.name,rating;

Exclude
Commonly used with selecting all fields with the wildcard * this command will exclude the fields that you select.

To exclude fields you don’t need the APICalypse command exclude or its shorthand x.

fields *;
exclude tags,keywords;

f *;
x tags,keywords;

Where
Where is easiest described as a filter. With where you can filter on specific fields.

To filter your results use the APICalypse command where or its shorthand w.

fields *;
where genres = 4;

f *;
w genres = 4;

Limit
Limit describes how many results you will get back from the api, the standard value is 10.

To set a new limit use the APICalypse command limit or it’s shorthand l.

fields *;
limit 50;

f *;
l 50;

Offset
Offset describes how many results you will skip over, standard is 0.

To set a new offset use the APICalypse command offset or it’s shorthand o.
Offset is often used together with Limit for pagination.

limit 50;
offset 50;

l 50;
o 50;

Sort
Use Sort to order the results to your liking.

To order the results use the APICalypse command sort or it’s shorthand s.
Sort has two accompaning commands for “direction”; asc Ascending order and desc Decending order.

fields *;
sort rating asc;

f *;
s rating desc;

Search
To find a specific title you can use Search.

To use search use the APICalypse command search, it has no shorthand :(. Search has it’s own endpoint where it is good to use a filter for specific kinds of results, example where game != null; for only games.

search "Halo";
fields name;

search "Halo";
f name;

Other shorts
Null can be written null or n. Booleans can be written as true or t and false or f
